# Escape.exe
Here we will discuss our journey throughout this projuct from challenges to what we loved about it.

Authors: Ryan Vansluytman, Kianna Barbarisi, Anthony Febbraro


Creation of Story Line and Hangman by Anthony Febbraro
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------#
In the beginning of this project, we all had big ideas and high aspirations for what we wanted the final product to look like. After initial brainstorming, we each decided that we would work on different puzzles that would be included in the overall game. I was assigned to work on hangman. This initially took a lot of trial and error with certain functions that included reading a file of words and creating a blank spot for the user to guess each letter. The rest was pretty simple, creating functions that were based on user input. Since I was done early, I decided to take on writing the storyline. I was very passionate about this part of the project because I really enjoy creative writing, so I was excited to implement my own storyline into a game. Also, having a huge passion for escape rooms definitely helped with this. I wanted to create an eerie feel to the game which also kept the player interested in what they were reading. Lastly, I decided to create one more game, which is the first game in the puzzle, that prompts the user to find a key to escape the first room. This wasn’t that difficult because it just involved user input and showing functions along with a randomness aspect for where the key would go. The only struggle was creating small images to go with each location because I am not particularly gifted in the keyboard art department. 
I would say that the biggest challenge was incorporating each of our puzzles together in the game and getting the game to flow, because we all had to put trust in each other that each part of the game was complete and working well. Also, we had to ditch the idea of making it super interactive and rely more on the story line because including a lot of choices regarding direction and flow of the game definitely would have taken us at least another 2 weeks. This game is something that we are super proud about and we may even further develop it over the summer to enhance our skills even more. Thanks for playing! (AJ Febbraro)



Creation of 400 Meter Dash Turtle Game by Ryan Vansluytman
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------#
This was hands down the most difficult project I ever worked on. I will even take it a step further and say the most challenging project. I have never 
put so much time, effort, and heart into a project before. I learned so much from developing this game with my peers. I wanted to ensure this project 
was a true reflection of my passion to learning the necessary skills to become an ethical hacker. This is my first semesterlearning about anything 
programming related, so it was definitely a challenge. Some challenges I had to overcome was learning the different python modules such as 'time', 
'tkinter', and 'pillow'. I spent so much time educating myself and gathering resources and effectively communicating with my team to ensure we were all 
on the same page and we all put our creative minds together. Learning tkinter was very challenging for me and time consuming, but it was definitely 
worthwhile. I am now aware of more capabilites of python. I definitely feel the progress I have made knowledge-wise from creating this game. I never knew 
the turtle module could be shown on a GUI and that was what tripped me up so much. I also had to struggle to learn how to place a background image on a 
tkinter canvas. I really loved seeing the end product and knowing that our time and hard work all paid off when we were able to be game developers! 


Creation of Word Scrambler by Kianna Barbarisi 
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------#
While I enjoyed creating a game for this final project in python, it is needless to say that I encountered quite a few obstacles along the way. To begin, I first decided to do a brain teaser game that would allow for the user to input their answer and continue to ask them to input the answer until they got it right. However, I had quite a few issues when I wanted to add in hints and only allow them three attempts to input the correct answer. I initially wanted to force the game to restart after three failed attempts but my code was giving me issues when I tried to run it. Another obstacle I encountered was when I tried to use tkinter to make the game using GUI to make it much more pleasing and easier to use than if it ran in the terminal. As tkinter was a completely new skill for me as I’ve never used it before, I watched countless tutorials and videos explaining the different aspects of tkinter and what it can be used for. In addition, I began to try to make the brain teaser game in tkinter but upon realization that it would be much more complex given the amount of time I had left to complete the project, I decided to change my game to a word unscrambler instead. While creating the game was time consuming and there were a lot of moving parts including the buttons and all of the functions, I enjoyed learning a new skill and the different ways python can be used. Later on in the project, the other obstacle I found was when I used two word phrases and the spaces were in the wrong places. I decided to change all of the terms to one word as I believed it would be much more difficult for the user to unscramble the phrase if they were unsure where the space was in the phrase. In addition, I originally hoped that in order for the user to move on in the game, they must correctly unscramble three words and then the tkinter window would close. However, I was unsure as to how to do this as I continued to get errors in my code. However, eventually I decided that I would try one more time at figuring this out and decided to simply put all of my code in a for loop, which luckily worked. Overall, I learned quite a bit about python and furthered my knowledge as well as ability to challenge myself in order to create something new. 
